readme.md, before:

# Resources
* [ReproIn](https://dbic-handbook.readthedocs.io/en/latest/mri/reproin.html) sequence name convention/standard
  * Siemens' scanner `Dot Cockpit` and `Exam Card` setup [walk through](https://github.com/ReproNim/reproin/blob/master/docs/walkthrough-1.md) (with screenshots)
  * automation implemented by [heudiconv](https://github.com/nipy/heudiconv/). See [reproin.py](https://github.com/nipy/heudiconv/blob/master/heudiconv/heuristics/reproin.py)
  * [ReproIn Creator Spreedsheet](./ReproIn-creator.xlsx): MRRC template to ReproIn using a formula with per column BIDS key-value pairs. ![sheet with dropdown](ReproInCreator.png)
  * [Flywheel Study Design Sheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1Yd74ewWAk4roA-IBfrQuOSMNR4DPxhB9/edit#gid=1495259008) (cf. [gitlab template folder](https://gitlab.com/flywheel-io/public/bids-client/-/tree/master/flywheel_bids/templates))
* goal is near automated [BIDS](https://bids-specification.readthedocs.io/en/stable/#the-brain-imaging-data-structure) Brain Imaging Data Structure conforming scanner dicom to nifti image+json sidecar name conversion.
   * Ideal for input in [fmriprep](https://fmriprep.org/en/stable/)
   * other [BIDS apps](https://github.com/bids-apps/)
   * [Flywheel gears](https://flywheel.io/gear-exchange/#:~:text=View%20Source-,gear%20library,-Gradient%20Anisotropic%20Diffusion).
   * and maybe (hopeful future) facilitate NIH share mandate compliance (cf. [bids2nda](https://github.com/bids-standard/bids2nda))
   * for validation see [bids-validator](https://github.com/bids-standard/bids-validator/) (nodejs)

# Pipeline
1. `00_dcm-rewrite-from-xlsx.py` rewrites `(0018, 1030) Protocol Name` using ReproIn conforming names in `7T-LunaSPA_ReproIn-SeqName.xlsx` (see sheet w/equations on [onedrive](https://pitt-my.sharepoint.com/:x:/g/personal/foran_pitt_edu/ERWaFHh1IRNCoIXmVds9QE8BzCRw-CqZGFjp4lqlOfOVmg?e=1fnslX))
1. `01_dcm-bids.sh` makes
```
bids/MRRC/SPA_Luna/20231103lunapilotspa2/sub-20231103lunapilotspa2/{anat,dwi,fmap,func}
```
with contents like
```
sub-20231103lunapilotspa2_acq-b0pfc_magnitude_dicom/
sub-20231103lunapilotspa2_acq-b0pfc_magnitude_heudiconv323_e1.nii.gz
sub-20231103lunapilotspa2_acq-b0pfc_magnitude_heudiconv323_e2.nii.gz
sub-20231103lunapilotspa2_acq-b0pfc_magnitude_heudiconv323_e3.nii.gz
sub-20231103lunapilotspa2_acq-b0pfc_magnitude_heudiconv323_e4.nii.gz
sub-20231103lunapilotspa2_acq-b0pfc_magnitude_heudiconv323_e5.nii.gz
```

See [`output-filelist.txt`](txt/output-filelist.txt) for full list.

# Outputs
[`Makefile`](Makefile) builds files in [`txt/`](txt/)

| file                | desc |
|-- |-- |
| [`input-orig.txt`](txt/input-orig.txt)      | original dicom headers per folder |
| [`input-repoin.txt`](txt/input-repoin.txt)  | edited dicom headers using `7T-LunaSPA_ReproIn-SeqName.xlsx` (`00_dcm-rewrite-from-xlsx.py`)|
| [`output-filelist.txt`](txt/output-filelist.txt) | heudiconv output: BIDS filelist |
| [`validate.txt`](txt/validate.txt)          | `bids-validator` output, using [.bidsignore](bidsignore)|

# Issues
* path `SPA_Luna/20231103lunapilotspa2/sub-20231103lunapilotspa2` has redudant ID folder. Should be `SPA_Luna/sub-20231103lunapilotspa2`?
* Does not pass bids validation. see [`validate.txt`](txt/validate.txt).
  * multiple echos as e.g. `_heudiconv323_e5` instead of `_echo-5` 
  * no `.json` files!? (see missing in [`output-filelist.txt`](txt/output-filelist.txt))
* how to encode session? only need in one sequence name?
* `_dicom/` directoires are unwanted (but not a problem for Flywheel?). Ignored with [.bidsignore](bidsignore)

# Dicom Notes

* `00_dcm-rewrite-from-xlsx.py` edits `Protocol Name` and outputs to folders using `Series Number`. 
* `Study Description` sets output folder using `heudiconv --files`: `MRRC^SPA_Luna` becomes `bids/MRRC/SPA_Luna/`

| dicom header | example value |
|-- |--|
|`(0008, 1030) Study Description`| `LO: 'MRRC^SPA_Luna'`|
|`(0010, 0010) PAT Patient Name` | `LO: '20231103Luna_PilotSPA2'` |
|`(0010, 0020) Patient ID`       | `LO: '20231103Luna_PilotSPA2` |
|`(0018, 1030) Protocol Name`    | `LO: 'mtgre_noMT'`|
|`(0020, 0011) Series Number`    | `IS: '48'`|

Commit message:

📝 link github page to repo and vice versa (copy star svg)

readme.md, after:

# Namer
[`entity_ux/`](entity_ux/) contains a web app to guide naming sequences as an alternative to the [ReproIn Creator Spreedsheet](./ReproIn-creator.xlsx).

It's live on https://NPACore.github.io/reproin-namer (via github pages w/ `doc/` symlink)

![web app screenshot with tooltips](entity_ux/reproin_creator_features.png)

# Resources
* [ReproIn](https://dbic-handbook.readthedocs.io/en/latest/mri/reproin.html) sequence name convention/standard
  * Siemens' scanner `Dot Cockpit` and `Exam Card` setup [walk through](https://github.com/ReproNim/reproin/blob/master/docs/walkthrough-1.md) (with screenshots)
  * automation implemented by [heudiconv](https://github.com/nipy/heudiconv/). See [reproin.py](https://github.com/nipy/heudiconv/blob/master/heudiconv/heuristics/reproin.py)
  * [ReproIn Creator Spreedsheet](./ReproIn-creator.xlsx): MRRC template to ReproIn using a formula with per column BIDS key-value pairs. ![sheet with dropdown](ReproInCreator.png)
  * [Flywheel Study Design Sheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1Yd74ewWAk4roA-IBfrQuOSMNR4DPxhB9/edit#gid=1495259008) (cf. [gitlab template folder](https://gitlab.com/flywheel-io/public/bids-client/-/tree/master/flywheel_bids/templates))
* goal is near automated [BIDS](https://bids-specification.readthedocs.io/en/stable/#the-brain-imaging-data-structure) Brain Imaging Data Structure conforming scanner dicom to nifti image+json sidecar name conversion.
   * Ideal for input in [fmriprep](https://fmriprep.org/en/stable/)
   * other [BIDS apps](https://github.com/bids-apps/)
   * [Flywheel gears](https://flywheel.io/gear-exchange/#:~:text=View%20Source-,gear%20library,-Gradient%20Anisotropic%20Diffusion).
   * and maybe (hopeful future) facilitate NIH share mandate compliance (cf. [bids2nda](https://github.com/bids-standard/bids2nda))
   * for validation see [bids-validator](https://github.com/bids-standard/bids-validator/) (nodejs)

# Pipeline
1. `00_dcm-rewrite-from-xlsx.py` rewrites `(0018, 1030) Protocol Name` using ReproIn conforming names in `7T-LunaSPA_ReproIn-SeqName.xlsx` (see sheet w/equations on [onedrive](https://pitt-my.sharepoint.com/:x:/g/personal/foran_pitt_edu/ERWaFHh1IRNCoIXmVds9QE8BzCRw-CqZGFjp4lqlOfOVmg?e=1fnslX))
1. `01_dcm-bids.sh` makes
```
bids/MRRC/SPA_Luna/20231103lunapilotspa2/sub-20231103lunapilotspa2/{anat,dwi,fmap,func}
```
with contents like
```
sub-20231103lunapilotspa2_acq-b0pfc_magnitude_dicom/
sub-20231103lunapilotspa2_acq-b0pfc_magnitude_heudiconv323_e1.nii.gz
sub-20231103lunapilotspa2_acq-b0pfc_magnitude_heudiconv323_e2.nii.gz
sub-20231103lunapilotspa2_acq-b0pfc_magnitude_heudiconv323_e3.nii.gz
sub-20231103lunapilotspa2_acq-b0pfc_magnitude_heudiconv323_e4.nii.gz
sub-20231103lunapilotspa2_acq-b0pfc_magnitude_heudiconv323_e5.nii.gz
```

See [`output-filelist.txt`](txt/output-filelist.txt) for full list.

# Outputs
[`Makefile`](Makefile) builds files in [`txt/`](txt/)

| file                | desc |
|-- |-- |
| [`input-orig.txt`](txt/input-orig.txt)      | original dicom headers per folder |
| [`input-repoin.txt`](txt/input-repoin.txt)  | edited dicom headers using `7T-LunaSPA_ReproIn-SeqName.xlsx` (`00_dcm-rewrite-from-xlsx.py`)|
| [`output-filelist.txt`](txt/output-filelist.txt) | heudiconv output: BIDS filelist |
| [`validate.txt`](txt/validate.txt)          | `bids-validator` output, using [.bidsignore](bidsignore)|

# Issues
* path `SPA_Luna/20231103lunapilotspa2/sub-20231103lunapilotspa2` has redudant ID folder. Should be `SPA_Luna/sub-20231103lunapilotspa2`?
* Does not pass bids validation. see [`validate.txt`](txt/validate.txt).
  * multiple echos as e.g. `_heudiconv323_e5` instead of `_echo-5` 
  * no `.json` files!? (see missing in [`output-filelist.txt`](txt/output-filelist.txt))
* how to encode session? only need in one sequence name?
* `_dicom/` directoires are unwanted (but not a problem for Flywheel?). Ignored with [.bidsignore](bidsignore)

# Dicom Notes

* `00_dcm-rewrite-from-xlsx.py` edits `Protocol Name` and outputs to folders using `Series Number`. 
* `Study Description` sets output folder using `heudiconv --files`: `MRRC^SPA_Luna` becomes `bids/MRRC/SPA_Luna/`

| dicom header | example value |
|-- |--|
|`(0008, 1030) Study Description`| `LO: 'MRRC^SPA_Luna'`|
|`(0010, 0010) PAT Patient Name` | `LO: '20231103Luna_PilotSPA2'` |
|`(0010, 0020) Patient ID`       | `LO: '20231103Luna_PilotSPA2` |
|`(0018, 1030) Protocol Name`    | `LO: 'mtgre_noMT'`|
|`(0020, 0011) Series Number`    | `IS: '48'`|
